Dictionary (#33)
scramjetorg/scramjet-cloud-docs: dictionary.md

### Endpoint

> This is an API endpoint which can be considered as a specific point of entry and also a point that can be referenced by sending requests. For example it is very common do refer to the endpoint to download soma data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an API endpoint which can be considered as a specific point of entry and also a point that can be referenced by sending the requests. For example, it is very common to send a request to API endpoint to get certain data.
```

> This is an API endpoint which can be considered as a specific point of entry and also a point that can be referenced by sending requests. For example it is very common do refer to the endpoint to download soma data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an API endpoint which can be considered as a specific point of entry and also a point that can be referenced by sending the requests. For example, it is very common to send a request to API endpoint to get certain data.
```

## H

### Health Check

> <!-- TODO -->

Reviewer: Information about the health of Instance. It informs whether an Instance is running and what is its resource consumption.

It can be accessed directly through Instance API, in the CLI or Panel.

The Instance API health check endpoint is `/health`. The following is an example health check from the Instance obtained with curl:
```
$ curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/instance/e9432a4f-2a64-41a2-82f1-39503a2a18df/health |jq
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100   226    0   226    0     0   220k      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  220k
{
  "cpuTotalUsage": 223212751,
  "healthy": true,
  "limit": 536870912,
  "memoryMaxUsage": 14352384,
  "memoryUsage": 12136448,
  "networkRx": 19852,
  "networkTx": 20174,
  "containerId": "df0aa7adf027465da1dfb08edd0a66dc8ffc8e0bd1f5d0fc7fafecbefdac72c6"
}
```

While the below is an example of health check from the same Instance but executed using the CLI interface:
```
$ si inst health e9432a4f-2a64-41a2-82f1-39503a2a18df
Request ok: http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/instance/e9432a4f-2a64-41a2-82f1-39503a2a18df/health status: 200 OK
{
  cpuTotalUsage: 203802417,
  healthy: true,
  limit: 536870912,
  memoryMaxUsage: 14352384,
  memoryUsage: 11980800,
  networkRx: 16266,
  networkTx: 15358,
  containerId: 'df0aa7adf027465da1dfb08edd0a66dc8ffc8e0bd1f5d0fc7fafecbefdac72c6'
}

```

Author: added, thank you Alice :)

### Host

A set of instances installed on the single operating system (host) together with software that controls instances and allows communication with external elements of the system via protocols (e.g. http)

- host -  a source of information or signals. The term can refer to a computer, smartphone, tablet or any electronic device. In a network, clients (users' machines) and servers are hosts because they are both sources of information in contrast to network devices, such as routers and switches, which only direct traffic.

- host program - software/program that runs in a computer that provides the source of information or signals.

### Hub

> <!-- TODO - what is the difference between Hub and Host, we still use both terms.

Reviewer: I thought that externally we use only words:
- STH/Transform-Hub for the open source STH.
- Hub - while describing the Host (as it is used in the code) in the cloud: the instance of class Host in the MultiHost process. However, "Host" is only an internal naming, while publicly it is branded as "Hub".

Isn't it so?

Author: true, the definition of Hub is unnecessary I guess. We will talk this over anyway 😉

### Loadcheck

<!-- TODO - edit due to Supervisor removal -->
One of the [supervisor's](#supervisor) components, which is responsible for collecting information about the work status of an [instance](#instance) and forwarding it to [LCC](#lifecycle-controller-lcc)

## M

### Manager

> <!-- TODO - do we want the user to know that? It will reveal the structure of our platform -->

Author: I agree. I removed it from the dictionary.

in the context of the Scramjet platform, Cloud Platform Manager is a host management software that provides service-discovery, controls the scaling of individual instances in accordance with the programmed logic and client configuration, providing [API](#api)

### MultiHost

> <!-- TODO - do we want the user to know that? It will reveal the structure of our platform -->

Author: agree

### MultiManager

> <!--TODO  DO WE WANT OUR USER TO KNOW THAT????-->

Author: I agree. I removed it from the dictionary.

## P

### Package

archived folder into `tar.gz` format ready to be sent to the Hub. Package contains:

- [Sequence](#sequence) (e.g. `index.ts` or `main.js`, etc.),

> - configuration file in [JSON](#json) format and,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- configuration file in [JSON](#json) format (named `package.json`) and,
```

### Runner

An executable written in one of the supported programming languages that starts the [Sequence](#sequence) created by developer, inside the container

## S

### Scalability

> <!-- TODO -->

Reviewer: I wouldn't explain it at that point. It's a very broad topic and we are not yet ready to support it.

Author: I agree. I removed it from the dictionary.

### Scope

> <!-- TODO -->

Reviewer: Scope as in the CLI sessions?

Reviewer: I guess so. In this case I would use a slightly edited version from https://github.com/scramjetorg/scramjet-cpm-dev/blob/main/cpm/packages/manager-cli/cli-draft.md#scope-help-output

```suggestion
A scope is a handy organization unit that lets a user switch between the currently used spaces and hubs. It is a named pair consisting of one space and one hub. This named pair is saved in the session config, which lets user work with different spaces and hubs sessions simultaneously. There can be multiple scopes, but only one can be used at once in a given session.
```
